
        Limitations on this version of ZIP/UNZIP for Delphi

  1. No support for Zip file comments.  Ignores any comments that may 
     already exist on ZIP files, and can't create comments on new 
     archives.

  2. Limited support for format conversions from other platforms:
     MAC, Unix, IBM MVS, etc.  No guarantees!

  3. No ability to prompt user upon trying to expand a file from
     an archive if a file is already present.  The user must decide
     beforehand whether he wants to overwrite, or skip, the files
     that already exist.

  4. No support for files that span more than 1 floppy disk.  I
     generally use SPLIT.EXE to break large archives into smaller
     pieces, and MS-DOS COPY to reassemble the pieces. 
       NEW: In version 1.40 I added the "mybackup" VCL.  It may
     help you split large archives so you can copy them to a floppy.

  5. No "built-in" ability exists to allow the application program
     to review each file in a wildcard spec before they are used.

  6. The OnProgress event is limited to providing information on 
     one file at a time. It doesn't give you the size of all files
     before starting to zip up the first file, so you can't see
     how far you are into compressing or expanding the whole
     group of files.  

  7. No support for Delphi v1 or Windows 3.1.  These DLL's require
     Win32.  Sorry, but it isn't worth the debugging time to do
     a back-port now.

  8. Although these DLL's work with WinNT, there is no support 
     for any expanded WinNT functionality not present in Win95
     (like the security subsystem, for example).

  9. In order to ensure that there are no copyright violations,
     this project intentionally doesn't support two compression
     formats:
         tokenizing -  was never widely used (I've never seen
                       this method used at all) 
         reducing   -  was only used with beta versions of
                       PKZIP before the release of v1.00
                       (circa 1988/1989, I think).  During 
                       this time most folks were still using
                       PKPAK and PKARC.  Reducing was slooooow.

     These formats ARE supported:
         no compression (storing)
         shrinking  (quick)
         imploding  (popular with PKZIP v1.01) 
         deflating  (best method, PKZIP v1.9+)

     As far as I know, this package fully supports every ZIP
     file made by PKZIP v2.04g.

10. The "network" pathnames, called UNCs, are not supported.
    A typical UNC pathname would be:
           \\server\shared\subdir\fname.ext
    Typically, you may have \\server\shared logically 
    mounted as drive Q, for example.  So, you could zip up 
    the file with this name:
           Q:\subdir\fname.ext

    NOTE:  The undocumented MS-DOS command "truename" is
    useful to see which network filesystem is mounted on
    a given logical drive.  For example, if you have a 
    network drive of Q:, use this command to find out 
    the UNC name on the server:
          TRUENAME Q:\

11. Recursive directory handling follows the Unix rules
    for wildcards in directory names.  That is, if you specify
    a filespec of "*.exe", and recursion is on, it will NOT
    go down into any directory that isn't named with an
    extension of ".exe"!  Until this can be changed,
    recursion is not very useful with any filespec other
    than "*.*".
